## Build Instructions

### Build directory

Make a build directory:

```
mkdir build
```

### Specify the compiler using environment variables

By default (if you don't set environment variables `CC` and `CXX`), the system
default compiler will be used.

Conan and CMake use the environment variables CC and CXX to decide which
compiler to use. So to avoid the conflict issues only specify the compilers
using these variables.

CMake will detect which compiler was used to build each of the Conan targets. If
you build all of your Conan targets with one compiler, and then build your CMake
targets with a different compiler, the project may fail to build.

<details>
<summary>Commands for setting the compilers </summary>

- Debian/Ubuntu/MacOS:

  Set your desired compiler (`clang`, `gcc`, etc):

    - Temporarily (only for the current shell)

      Run one of the followings in the terminal:

        - clang

              CC=clang CXX=clang++

        - gcc

              CC=gcc CXX=g++

    - Permanent:

      Open `~/.bashrc` using your text editor:

          gedit ~/.bashrc

      Add `CC` and `CXX` to point to the compilers:

          export CC=clang
          export CXX=clang++

      Save and close the file.

- Windows:

    - Permanent:

      Run one of the followings in PowerShell:

        - Visual Studio generator and compiler (cl)

              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CC", "cl.exe", "User")
              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CXX", "cl.exe", "User")
              refreshenv

          Set the architecture using
          [vsvarsall](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line?view=vs-2019#vcvarsall-syntax):

              vsvarsall.bat x64

        - clang

              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CC", "clang.exe", "User")
              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CXX", "clang++.exe", "User")
              refreshenv

        - gcc

              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CC", "gcc.exe", "User")
              [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CXX", "g++.exe", "User")
              refreshenv

    - Temporarily (only for the current shell):

          $Env:CC="clang.exe"
          $Env:CXX="clang++.exe"

</details>

### Configure your build

To configure the project and write makefiles, you could use `cmake` with a bunch
of command line options. The easier option is to run cmake interactively:

#### **Configure via cmake-gui**:

1. Open cmake-gui from the project directory:

```
cmake-gui .
```

2. Set the build directory:

![build_dir](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82524586-fa48e380-9af4-11ea-8514-4e18a063d8eb.jpg)

3. Configure the generator:

In cmake-gui, from the upper menu select `Tools/Configure`.

**Warning**: if you have set `CC` and `CXX` always choose the
`use default native compilers` option. This picks `CC` and `CXX`. Don't change
the compiler at this stage!

<details>
<summary>Windows - MinGW Makefiles</summary>

Choose MinGW Makefiles as the generator:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82769479-616ade80-9dfa-11ea-899e-3a8c31d43032.png" alt="mingw">

</details>

<details>
<summary>Windows - Visual Studio generator and compiler</summary>

You should have already set `C` and `CXX` to `cl.exe`.

Choose "Visual Studio 16 2019" as the generator:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82524696-32502680-9af5-11ea-9697-a42000e900a6.jpg" alt="default_vs">

</details>

<details>

<summary>Windows - Visual Studio generator and Clang Compiler</summary>

You should have already set `C` and `CXX` to `clang.exe` and `clang++.exe`.

Choose "Visual Studio 16 2019" as the generator. To tell Visual studio to use
`clang-cl.exe`:

- If you use the LLVM that is shipped with Visual Studio: write `ClangCl` under
  "optional toolset to use".

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82781142-ae60ac00-9e1e-11ea-8c77-222b005a8f7e.png" alt="visual_studio">

- If you use an external LLVM: write
  [`LLVM_v142`](https://github.com/zufuliu/llvm-utils#llvm-for-visual-studio-2017-and-2019)
  under "optional toolset to use".

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82769558-b3136900-9dfa-11ea-9f73-02ab8f9b0ca4.png" alt="visual_studio">

</details>
<br/>

4. Choose the Cmake options and then generate:

![generate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16418197/82781591-c97feb80-9e1f-11ea-86c8-f2748b96f516.png)

#### **Configure via ccmake**:

with the Cmake Curses Dialog Command Line tool:

    ccmake -S . -B ./build

Once `ccmake` has finished setting up, press 'c' to configure the project, press
'g' to generate, and 'q' to quit.

### Build

Once you have selected all the options you would like to use, you can build the
project (all targets):

    cmake --build ./build

For Visual Studio, give the build configuration (Release, RelWithDeb, Debug,
etc) like the following:

    cmake --build ./build -- /p:configuration=Release

## Troubleshooting

### Update Conan

Many problems that users have can be resolved by updating Conan, so if you are
having any trouble with this project, you should start by doing that.

To update conan:

    $ pip install --user --upgrade conan

You may need to use `pip3` instead of `pip` in this command, depending on your
platform.

### Clear Conan cache

If you continue to have trouble with your Conan dependencies, you can try
clearing your Conan cache:

    $ conan remove -f '*'

The next time you run `cmake` or `cmake --build`, your Conan dependencies will
be rebuilt. If you aren't using your system's default compiler, don't forget to
set the CC, CXX, CMAKE_C_COMPILER, and CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER variables, as
described in the 'Build using an alternate compiler' section above.

### Identifying misconfiguration of Conan dependencies

If you have a dependency 'A' that requires a specific version of another
dependency 'B', and your project is trying to use the wrong version of
dependency 'B', Conan will produce warnings about this configuration error when
you run CMake. These warnings can easily get lost between a couple hundred or
thousand lines of output, depending on the size of your project.

If your project has a Conan configuration error, you can use `conan info` to
find it. `conan info` displays information about the dependency graph of your
project, with colorized output in some terminals.

    $ cd build
    $ conan info .

In my terminal, the first couple lines of `conan info`'s output show all of the
project's configuration warnings in a bright yellow font.

For example, the package `spdlog/1.5.0` depends on the package `fmt/6.1.2`. If
you were to modify the file `cmake/Conan.cmake` so that it requires an earlier
version of `fmt`, such as `fmt/6.0.0`, and then run:

    $ conan remove -f '*'       # clear Conan cache
    $ rm -rf build              # clear previous CMake build
    $ mkdir build && cd build
    $ cmake ..                  # rebuild Conan dependencies
    $ conan info .

...the first line of output would be a warning that `spdlog` needs a more recent
version of `fmt`.

## Testing

See
[Catch2 tutorial](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/blob/master/docs/tutorial.md)

## Fuzz testing

See
[libFuzzer Tutorial](https://github.com/google/fuzzing/blob/master/tutorial/libFuzzerTutorial.md)
